docs/community/index.md, before:

# Join the *NiPreps* Community

One of the pillars of *fMRIPrep*, the seed project for *NiPreps*,
has been nurturing an open-source community.
[Building Welcoming Communities](https://opensource.guide/building-community/)
is crucial for open-source software because of several reasons:

  * Engaging users and *contributors* (in a very liberal sense, not just with code)
    helps establish a development road-map:

      * In the case of *fMRIPrep*, many users have reported bugs via our issue
        tracker and [Neurostars.org].
        Even though testing is one of the primary focuses for *fMRIPrep*, without these
        bug-report contributions the tool would have never reached the dependability level
        it requires to serve its purpose.
      * Users identify and propose new features, often illuminating shady areas the
        most involved developers did not find time or the right context to explore.

  * The community exposes the software and also increases the externality of the software.
    The neuroimaging discussion supported by [Neurostars.org]
    has been a key factor for the adoption of *fMRIPrep*.

  * Users always give back, and it is not uncommon to see elaborate responses
    to bug-reports and questions about *fMRIPrep* on [Neurostars.org]
    by users who had similar questions previously.

Because of the scientific purpose of *NiPreps*, there is one more **fundamental**
reason to grow a (scientific) community around the tools: **rigor/scrutiny**.
As one reviews a few of the most discussed pull-requests to *fMRIPrep*, very soon
they realize that we don't just need to get the code right.
We strive for integrating high-quality code, but even more importantly, that code
must get the scientific method it implements right.
This is particularly difficult because in most of the cases there aren't
test oracles (in software engineering terms) or gold-standards (in scientific terms)
to efficiently evaluate the validity of new features (even to exercise a minuscule area
of the domain of inputs).
The redundancy of expert eyes looking at our code has only helped make it better.

## Members


[Neurostars.org]: https://neurostars.org

Commit message:

enh: improve member grid generation

docs/community/index.md, after:

# Join the *NiPreps* Community

One of the pillars of *fMRIPrep*, the seed project for *NiPreps*,
has been nurturing an open-source community.
[Building Welcoming Communities](https://opensource.guide/building-community/)
is crucial for open-source software because of several reasons:

  * Engaging users and *contributors* (in a very liberal sense, not just with code)
    helps establish a development road-map:

      * In the case of *fMRIPrep*, many users have reported bugs via our issue
        tracker and [Neurostars.org].
        Even though testing is one of the primary focuses for *fMRIPrep*, without these
        bug-report contributions the tool would have never reached the dependability level
        it requires to serve its purpose.
      * Users identify and propose new features, often illuminating shady areas the
        most involved developers did not find time or the right context to explore.

  * The community exposes the software and also increases the externality of the software.
    The neuroimaging discussion supported by [Neurostars.org]
    has been a key factor for the adoption of *fMRIPrep*.

  * Users always give back, and it is not uncommon to see elaborate responses
    to bug-reports and questions about *fMRIPrep* on [Neurostars.org]
    by users who had similar questions previously.

Because of the scientific purpose of *NiPreps*, there is one more **fundamental**
reason to grow a (scientific) community around the tools: **rigor/scrutiny**.
As one reviews a few of the most discussed pull-requests to *fMRIPrep*, very soon
they realize that we don't just need to get the code right.
We strive for integrating high-quality code, but even more importantly, that code
must get the scientific method it implements right.
This is particularly difficult because in most of the cases there aren't
test oracles (in software engineering terms) or gold-standards (in scientific terms)
to efficiently evaluate the validity of new features (even to exercise a minuscule area
of the domain of inputs).
The redundancy of expert eyes looking at our code has only helped make it better.

## Current members of the GitHub organization

A total of {{total_number_of_members}} neuroimagers have already joined us.
Becoming a member will give you access to additional forums for discussion, 
suscribing notifications for events and meetings, etc.
You can request you are added to the organization by
[creating a new issue here](https://github.com/nipreps/.github/issues/new/choose).

![[[members_grid]]]

[Neurostars.org]: https://neurostars.org
